App Router
The App Router is a file-system based router that uses React's latest features such as Server Components, Suspense, and Server Functions.


Project structure and organization
This page provides an overview of all the folder and file conventions in Next.js, and recommendations for organizing your project.

Folder and file conventions
Top-level folders
Top-level folders are used to organize your application's code and static assets.

Route segments to path segments
app	App Router
pages	Pages Router
public	Static assets to be served
src	Optional application source folder
Top-level files
Top-level files are used to configure your application, manage dependencies, run middleware, integrate monitoring tools, and define environment variables.

Next.js	
next.config.js	Configuration file for Next.js
package.json	Project dependencies and scripts
instrumentation.ts	OpenTelemetry and Instrumentation file
middleware.ts	Next.js request middleware
.env	Environment variables
.env.local	Local environment variables
.env.production	Production environment variables
.env.development	Development environment variables
.eslintrc.json	Configuration file for ESLint
.gitignore	Git files and folders to ignore
next-env.d.ts	TypeScript declaration file for Next.js
tsconfig.json	Configuration file for TypeScript
jsconfig.json	Configuration file for JavaScript
Routing Files
layout	.js .jsx .tsx	Layout
page	.js .jsx .tsx	Page
loading	.js .jsx .tsx	Loading UI
not-found	.js .jsx .tsx	Not found UI
error	.js .jsx .tsx	Error UI
global-error	.js .jsx .tsx	Global error UI
route	.js .ts	API endpoint
template	.js .jsx .tsx	Re-rendered layout
default	.js .jsx .tsx	Parallel route fallback page
Nested routes
folder	Route segment
folder/folder	Nested route segment
Dynamic routes
[folder]	Dynamic route segment
[...folder]	Catch-all route segment
[[...folder]]	Optional catch-all route segment
Route Groups and private folders
(folder)	Group routes without affecting routing
_folder	Opt folder and all child segments out of routing
Parallel and Intercepted Routes
@folder	Named slot
(.)folder	Intercept same level
(..)folder	Intercept one level above
(..)(..)folder	Intercept two levels above
(...)folder	Intercept from root
Metadata file conventions
App icons
favicon	.ico	Favicon file
icon	.ico .jpg .jpeg .png .svg	App Icon file
icon	.js .ts .tsx	Generated App Icon
apple-icon	.jpg .jpeg, .png	Apple App Icon file
apple-icon	.js .ts .tsx	Generated Apple App Icon
Open Graph and Twitter images
opengraph-image	.jpg .jpeg .png .gif	Open Graph image file
opengraph-image	.js .ts .tsx	Generated Open Graph image
twitter-image	.jpg .jpeg .png .gif	Twitter image file
twitter-image	.js .ts .tsx	Generated Twitter image
SEO
sitemap	.xml	Sitemap file
sitemap	.js .ts	Generated Sitemap
robots	.txt	Robots file
robots	.js .ts	Generated Robots file
Organizing your project
Next.js is unopinionated about how you organize and colocate your project files. But it does provide several features to help you organize your project.

Component hierarchy
The components defined in special files are rendered in a specific hierarchy:

layout.js
template.js
error.js (React error boundary)
loading.js (React suspense boundary)
not-found.js (React error boundary)
page.js or nested layout.js
Component Hierarchy for File Conventions
The components are rendered recursively in nested routes, meaning the components of a route segment will be nested inside the components of its parent segment.

Nested File Conventions Component Hierarchy
Colocation
In the app directory, nested folders define route structure. Each folder represents a route segment that is mapped to a corresponding segment in a URL path.

However, even though route structure is defined through folders, a route is not publicly accessible until a page.js or route.js file is added to a route segment.

A diagram showing how a route is not publicly accessible until a page.js or route.js file is added to a route segment.
And, even when a route is made publicly accessible, only the content returned by page.js or route.js is sent to the client.

A diagram showing how page.js and route.js files make routes publicly accessible.
This means that project files can be safely colocated inside route segments in the app directory without accidentally being routable.

A diagram showing colocated project files are not routable even when a segment contains a page.js or route.js file.
Good to know: While you can colocate your project files in app you don't have to. If you prefer, you can keep them outside the app directory.

Private folders
Private folders can be created by prefixing a folder with an underscore: _folderName

This indicates the folder is a private implementation detail and should not be considered by the routing system, thereby opting the folder and all its subfolders out of routing.

An example folder structure using private folders
Since files in the app directory can be safely colocated by default, private folders are not required for colocation. However, they can be useful for:

Separating UI logic from routing logic.
Consistently organizing internal files across a project and the Next.js ecosystem.
Sorting and grouping files in code editors.
Avoiding potential naming conflicts with future Next.js file conventions.
Good to know:

While not a framework convention, you might also consider marking files outside private folders as "private" using the same underscore pattern.
You can create URL segments that start with an underscore by prefixing the folder name with %5F (the URL-encoded form of an underscore): %5FfolderName.
If you don't use private folders, it would be helpful to know Next.js special file conventions to prevent unexpected naming conflicts.
Route groups
Route groups can be created by wrapping a folder in parenthesis: (folderName)

This indicates the folder is for organizational purposes and should not be included in the route's URL path.

An example folder structure using route groups
Route groups are useful for:

Organizing routes by site section, intent, or team. e.g. marketing pages, admin pages, etc.
Enabling nested layouts in the same route segment level:
Creating multiple nested layouts in the same segment, including multiple root layouts
Adding a layout to a subset of routes in a common segment
src folder
Next.js supports storing application code (including app) inside an optional src folder. This separates application code from project configuration files which mostly live in the root of a project.

An example folder structure with the `src` folder
Examples
The following section lists a very high-level overview of common strategies. The simplest takeaway is to choose a strategy that works for you and your team and be consistent across the project.

Good to know: In our examples below, we're using components and lib folders as generalized placeholders, their naming has no special framework significance and your projects might use other folders like ui, utils, hooks, styles, etc.

Store project files outside of app
This strategy stores all application code in shared folders in the root of your project and keeps the app directory purely for routing purposes.

An example folder structure with project files outside of app
Store project files in top-level folders inside of app
This strategy stores all application code in shared folders in the root of the app directory.

An example folder structure with project files inside app
Split project files by feature or route
This strategy stores globally shared application code in the root app directory and splits more specific application code into the route segments that use them.

An example folder structure with project files split by feature or route
Organize routes without affecting the URL path
To organize routes without affecting the URL, create a group to keep related routes together. The folders in parenthesis will be omitted from the URL (e.g. (marketing) or (shop)).

Organizing Routes with Route Groups
Even though routes inside (marketing) and (shop) share the same URL hierarchy, you can create a different layout for each group by adding a layout.js file inside their folders.

Route Groups with Multiple Layouts
Opting specific segments into a layout
To opt specific routes into a layout, create a new route group (e.g. (shop)) and move the routes that share the same layout into the group (e.g. account and cart). The routes outside of the group will not share the layout (e.g. checkout).

Route Groups with Opt-in Layouts
Opting for loading skeletons on a specific route
To apply a loading skeleton via a loading.js file to a specific route, create a new route group (e.g., /(overview)) and then move your loading.tsx inside that route group.

Folder structure showing a loading.tsx and a page.tsx inside the route group
Now, the loading.tsx file will only apply to your dashboard → overview page instead of all your dashboard pages without affecting the URL path structure.

Creating multiple root layouts
To create multiple root layouts, remove the top-level layout.js file, and add a layout.js file inside each route group. This is useful for partitioning an application into sections that have a completely different UI or experience. The <html> and <body> tags need to be added to each root layout.

Route Groups with Multiple Root Layouts
In the example above, both (marketing) and (shop) have their own root layout.
